Mutation of a lysine residue, conserved in all kinases, in the ATP binding domain of GSK-3 creates a kinase-deficient protein that acts as a dominant-negative mutant in Xenopus. Overexpression of this mutant on the ventral side of embryos results in the formation of a second body axis (Dominguez et al. 1995; He et al. 1995; Pierce and Kimelman 1995) by locally preventing the degradation of beta-catenin (Yost et al. 1996; Larabell et al. 1997). It was previously assumed that dnXgsk-3 functions by competing with endogenous Xgsk-3 for substrates or regulatory molecules. The demonstration that Axin binds GSK-3 and beta-catenin and promotes GSK-3 phosphorylation of beta-catenin suggested that Axin might be the target of the dnXgsk-3. However, Ikeda et al. 1998 showed that a kinase-deficient mammalian GSK-3 analogous to ours does not bind Axin in cell culture, and other workers have found that similar GSK-3 mutants do not act as dominant-negatives in the Wnt pathway in mammalian cells (Woodgett, J., personal communication). A different GSK-3 kinase mutant, GSK-3Y>F also coimmunoprecipitates less Axin than wild-type GSK-3 in mammalian cells (Yuan et al. 1999). Furthermore, Akt, which inhibits GSK-3 by phosphorylating it, reduces the amount of Axin coimmunoprecipitated by GSK-3 (Yuan et al. 1999). However, we show here that the dominant-negative Xgsk-3 and wild-type Xgsk-3 bind Axin equally well in vivo. This is consistent with a model in which overexpressed kinase-deficient Xgsk-3 acts as a dominant- negative either by displacing endogenous Xgsk-3 already bound to Axin or by preventing endogenous Xgsk-3 from binding Axin as new complexes form. In either case, endogenous Xgsk-3 is prevented from phosphorylating beta-catenin by the dominant-negative Xgsk-3 because it is prevented from associating with Axin. In mammalian cells, the lack of a dominant-negative activity for kinase-deficient GSK-3 can be attributed to its inability to bind Axin. It is unclear why a more severe mutation in a mammalian GSK-3 than that of Ikeda et al. 1998 apparently retains its ability to bind Axin in vitro (Sakanaka et al. 1998). However, it was not addressed whether this mutant acted as a dominant-negative.