Previously, we identified Fli-I as a CARM1 binding protein and as a coactivator for NR-dependent transcription. Fli-I was originally characterized as a developmentally essential protein in Drosophila. Severe mutations or homozygous knock-out of the gene encoding Fli-I lead to impaired cellularization and gastrulation of Drosophila embryos and early embryonic death in mice. Even mild mutations of Fli-I in Drosophila cause defects in the development of flight muscles and a loss-of-flight phenotype. The human Fli-I gene is located in a region of chromosome 17p which is associated with Smith-Magenis syndrome, a genetic disease causing developmental and behavioral abnormalities. In spite of the developmental significance of Fli-I, its biochemical roles remain to be further elucidated. Fli-I has a highly conserved protein structure among Drosophila, mouse and human, with a leucine rich repeat (LRR) motif at the N-terminus and a gelsolin-like domain in the C-terminal region. The C-terminal region of human Fli-I has 31% identity and 52% similarity to human gelsolin, which is a member of an actin-binding protein family. The gelsolin-like domain of Fli-I interacts with actin and the actin-like protein BAF53 (Brg1 associated factor 53), which are both components of the Swi/Snf complex. In cultured cells Fli-I can be in the nucleus or associated with actin in the cytoskeleton, depending on the serum levels and growth conditions, suggesting multiple roles for Fli-I in transcription and cytoskeleton regulation. As with the LRR-motifs of other proteins, the LRR domain of Fli-I consists of 16 tandem LRRs. Proteins with LRR domains have diverse cellular localization and functions such as transcription and signal transduction. LRR domains often function in protein-protein interactions. To understand the roles of Fli-I LRR, two independent groups identified interacting proteins by yeast two-hybrid screening. These include mouse Fli-I LRR associating protein 1 (FLAP1) and human LRR Fli-I interacting proteins 1 and 2 (LRRFIP1 and 2). A related protein, the human immunodeficiency virus TAR RNA interacting protein (TRIP), was isolated by another group of investigators. Interestingly, all of these proteins, FLAP1, LRRFIP1 and 2 and TRIP have similar sequences and predicted structure rich in alpha-helices and coiled-coils. However, the biochemical functions of these proteins remain obscure.