While the phenomenon of NMD and its impact on gene expression are well documented, the understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms is still fragmented. A central question is how PTCs are recognized and discriminated from natural termination codons (TCs). The current models for NMD differ remarkably between mammals and other eukaryotes. While all models agree that translation is required for NMD, studies of mammalian genes indicate that NMD in higher eukaryotes also depends on pre-mRNA splicing. The current model for mammalian NMD postulates that PTC recognition requires an interaction between an exon junction complex (EJC) bound to the mRNA downstream of the TC and the terminating ribosome. However, several examples of NMD in mammals have been reported that are inconsistent with this EJC-dependent NMD model ( and references therein). Recently, we showed that PTCs in the terminal exon of Ig-mu minigenes (minimu) elicit NMD dependent on the length of their 3' untranslated region (UTR). This is reminiscent of the situation in D. melanogaster, C. elegans, S. cerevisiae, and plants, where PTC recognition occurs independently of splicing and EJC factors, but where instead 3' UTR length and the poly(A)-binding protein (PABP) were found to play an important role. The "faux 3' UTR" model, which is based on studies with yeast, postulates that proper translation termination requires an interaction between PABP and eRF3 bound to the terminating ribosome, and that the absence of this positive signal leads to aberrant termination and NMD as a consequence. We report here that our results obtained with human cell lines are consistent with the yeast "faux 3' UTR" model, providing strong evidence for an evolutionarily conserved basic mechanism of PTC recognition in which PABPC1 acts as an NMD antagonizing factor and a role for the mammalian EJC as an NMD enhancer. But most importantly, our data show that mRNA half-lives can be regulated by altering the spatial configuration of their 3' UTRs. This represents a novel, potentially widespread mechanism for posttranscriptional gene regulation by NMD.