It has been shown that in order for Sec22b to bind to the Sec23/24 component of the COPII coat, both its longin domain and an intact SNARE helix are required. The recently determined structure of the Sec22b longin domain complexed with Sec23/24 showed that a small part of the Sec22b SNARE helix binds back onto and stabilizes its longin domain such that it can interact with Sec23/24. Binding back and interaction with Sec23/24 would be impossible if the Sec22b SNARE helix was participating in a cis-SNARE complex, which leads to the conclusion that Sec23/24 can only bind to isolated, that is, uncomplexed, Sec22b. Overlaying the structures of the VAMP7 longin domain and Sec22b longin domain (Figure 6A) shows that the two possess a very similar hydrophobic groove that binds the first half of the Hrb fragment in the case of VAMP7 and binds back on the SNARE helix in the case of Sec22b, both in very similar conformations and using very similar, mainly hydrophobic, side chains (Figures 6B and 6C). However, the region of the Sec22b longin domain analogous to the site on the VAMP7 longin domain where residues 168-176 of the Hrb sequence bind is different in the two proteins, explaining why Hrb cannot bind Sec22b (Figure 1). Comparison of the SNARE helix sequences of VAMP7 and Sec22b reveals a high degree of similarity in the region that in Sec22b binds back on its longin domain and, indeed, the major determinants of the Sec22b SNARE helix binding Ile139, Met140, and Ile144 (numbering as in VAMP7) are absolutely conserved between the two proteins (Figure 6). These residues also align well with the residues in Hrb bound by VAMP7 longin domain (Figure 6). These observations suggested that the SNARE helix of VAMP7 also binds back onto its longin domain, a suggestion that is in line with. However, because the SNARE helix binding back to the longin domain would occur at the same site as Hrb binding, they would be mutually exclusive. Further, because binding back of the VAMP7 SNARE helix onto its longin domain is intramolecular as opposed to Hrb binding which is intermolecular, the former would be much stronger and predominate in solution. To test the proposal that Hrb and the SNARE helix of VAMP7 compete for the same site on the VAMP7 longin domain, GST pull-down experiments were performed using GST-VAMP longin domain alone, GST-VAMP7 full-length wild-type cytoplasmic domain, and a fully folded (as determined by circular dichroism; data not shown) mutant version of the latter in which the key binding Ile139, Met140, and Ile144 residues were mutated to serines (Figure 7A). Figure 7B shows that VAMP7 longin domain alone effectively bound Hrb, but full-length, wild-type cytoplasmic domain of VAMP7 demonstrated very little binding. However, mutation of the proposed key longin domain-binding residues in the SNARE helix of VAMP7 restored Hrb binding. In vivo, the sequestration of this "bind-back" sequence in VAMP7 would occur on SNARE complex formation, which at the plasma membrane would likely be with SNAP23 and syntaxin4. Consequently, a 1:1:1 stoichiometric complex was made between recombinant, bacterially produced, full-length VAMP7 cytoplasmic domain, SNAP23, and the SNARE helix of syntaxin4 and its ability to bind Hrb compared with that of both the isolated VAMP7 longin domain and full-length cytoplasmic domain. As shown in Figures 7C and 7D, whereas isolated full-length VAMP7 showed little binding to Hrb, participation in a SNARE complex restored Hrb binding of the VAMP7 cytoplasmic domain to levels comparable to that displayed by the isolated longin domain.