To begin mechanistically characterize the physical interactions among the PIKfyve, ArPIKfyve and Sac3, we sought to determine whether the ternary heteromeric association seen with the endogenous proteins could be reproduced with the ectopically expressed proteins by a similar immunoprecipitation analysis. A failure for such an interaction would indicate that the three overexpressed proteins are not sufficient to organize a ternary complex and that the triple interaction seen with the endogenous PIKfyve, ArPIKfyve and Sac3 is maintained by unknown endogenous protein(s). Examination of fresh RIPA lysates from COS cells triply transfected with HA-, Myc- and/or GFP-forms of the three proteins in various combinations revealed unequivocal copurification of the other two proteins with antibodies to either the HA-, Myc- or GFP-tag of the third protein. As documented in Fig. 1A, Myc-Sac3 and Myc-ArPIKfyve were coimmunoprecipitated with anti-HA-PIKfyve antibodies from the HA-PIKfyve/Myc-Sac3/Myc-ArPIKfyve triple transfection. Likewise, GFP-Sac3 and HA-PIKfyve were coimmunoprecipitated with anti-Myc-ArPIKfyve from the HA-PIKfyve/GFP-Sac3/Myc-ArPIKfyve triple transfection (Fig. 1B). Consistently, Myc-ArPIKfyve and Myc-PIKfyve were coimmunoprecipitated with anti-HA-Sac3 from the HA-Sac3/Myc-PIKfyve/Myc-ArPIKfyve triple transfection (Fig. 1C). Importantly, no coimmunoprecipitated bands were observed if the protein whose epitope-tag was targeted in the immunoprecipitation was left out from the transfection (Fig. 1A,B and C), demonstrating the specificity in the protein copurification. Likewise, there were no precipitated/coprecipitated bands corresponding to the ectopically expressed proteins with the control rabbit or mouse nonimmune IgG (not shown, and see further). Together, these data demonstrate that, just like the endogenous proteins in native cells, ectopically expressed PIKfyve, ArPIKfyve and Sac3 physically associate in triply transfected cells. Because it is highly unlikely that an unknown endogenous protein could be expressed at levels sufficient to organize the triad of overexpressed proteins, the data suggest that PIKfyve, ArPIKfyve and Sac3 are sufficient for the PAS complex formation.