(A) Effects on Wnt signaling in the HEK293 reporter stable cell line with and without Wnt3a stimulation for siRNAs targeting RNF146, the combination of tankyrases TNKS1 and TNKS2, or the combination of all three genes. On the right half of the graph, these siRNAs are also combined with AXIN1 siRNA. AXIN2, beta-catenin, and non-targeting siRNAs serve as controls. (B) Western analysis of whole cell lysates for HEK293 cells treated as in (A). (C) Time course of tankyrase (TNKS1 and TNKS2) and Axin stabilization in HEK293T cells stably expressing RNF146 miRNA that was induced for the indicated times with doxycycline (DOX), with or without Wnt3a added for the final 12 h of DOX induction. beta-catenin phosphorylation and RNF146 protein knockdown levels are also shown. GSK3alpha/betaimmunoblotting was used as a loading control. (D) Western analysis of HEK293 cells treated with tankyrase small-molecule inhibitor IWR-2 at the indicated concentrations for 16 h without (-) or with (+) Wnt3a induction. Whole cell lysates were monitored for AXIN1, RNF146, and beta-catenin protein levels, and GAPDH serves as a loading control. Transgenic overexpression of RNF46 partially blocks AXIN1 protein stabilization by IWR-2 compound (right-most two lanes). (E) Wnt reporter activity in the HEK293 stable cell line transfected with expression constructs for the indicated RNF146 alleles, co-expressed with either control vector (blue, without Wnt3a stimulation, or red, with Wnt3a) or RNF146 (green, without Wnt3a, or purple, with Wnt3a). A cell viability assay was used to normalize Wnt luciferase reporter activity. (F) Corresponding Western analysis of Axin, RNF146, and tankyrase proteins for cells treated as in (E). (G) Schematic representation of the RNF146 proteins produced by the expression constructs, with structural domains and mutation sites indicated. (H) Western analysis of endogenous tankyrase and Axin protein levels in HEK293T cells stably expressing doxycycline-induced RNF146 (RNF) or control (lacZ) miRNA after transfection with the indicated RNF146 or control vector expression plasmids, without (-) or with (+) Wnt3a induction. Anti-HA immunoblotting shows the expression level and RNAi-mediated knockdown of HA-RNF146 protein, and GAPDH levels serve as a loading control.