We evaluated a M. tuberculosis clone, with a transposon in the gene Rv3365c, an inactivation that lead to a polar effect on a chromosomal region with five genes. The first gene in the operon, Rv3365c, encodes for a putative regulatory protein that may be able to sense the environment. Rv3364c encodes most similar protein to the Roadblock/LC7 family of proteins, which in Myxococcus xanthus is associated with gliding motility, and in eukaryotes, with dynein (Koonin and Aravind,). Rv3361c, the last gene in the operon, encodes for a protein involved in fluoroquinolone resistance (Hegde et al.,). The gene just upstream (Rv3362c) encodes for a probable ATP-binding protein. The Rv3363c most likely is a partner protein to Rv3365c and is activated by this sensory histidine kinase. Therefore, the operon is suggestive to be composed of genes encoding for proteins to sense the surrounding environment. The expression of whole operon is highly upregulated inside phagocytic cells, which again supports the hypothesis that the secreted protein(s) would have a function within the host cell. The finding that Rv3364c inactivation and consequent lack of function in the region was associated with a significant increased production of IFN-beta by infected macrophages raised the possibility of an association between M. tuberculosis Rv3361c-Rv3364c and host cytosolic sensors. Type I IFNs are an important class of cytokines, responsible for a number of diverse immune responses to pathogens (Monroe et al.,). This group of cytokines is transcribed in response to signals from surveillance pathways, such as caspase recruitment domain (CARD)-containing sensors like RIG-1 and MDA5 and NOD proteins (Franchi et al.,). These latter proteins, also known as NOD-like family receptors (NLR) recognize primarily microbial molecules. The cytosolic receptors, NOD1 and NOD2, bind to meso-diaminopimelic acid and muramyl dipeptide, respectively. Once activated, NOD1 and NOD2 undergo conformational changes and activate NF-kappaB downstream. Many bacteria were demonstrated to activate NOD1, including Shigella flexneri (Girardin et al.,), and Listeria monocytogenes (Park et al.,). Staphylococcus aureus (Kapetanovic et al.,) and L. monocytogenes (Kobayashi et al.,) have been associated with NOD2 activation. Ferwerda et al. showed that NOD2 is a recognition system for M. tuberculosis. This intracellular receptor has been shown to regulate the host response to M. tuberculosis and BCG infection in human macrophages (Brooks et al.,). Our results also confirm the previous observation that M. tuberculosis infection inhibits NOD2 expression. The reason NOD2 transcript and protein were down-regulated in macrophages after 4 days of infection is not known, but it indicates that the phagocytic cell does not transmit any message using that pathway, silencing a recognition path. Since NOD2 is constitutively expressed in cells, in contrast to NOD1, one would expect that NOD2 production would be sustained during infection. NOD1 expression, however, was only triggered at late time points by the mutant 20A11 (Rv3364c-inactivated), but not by the wild-type bacterium. Considering that the bacterial structure responsible for the activation of NOD1 is almost certainly present on the 20A11 mutant strain (diaminopimelic acid), since the synthetic pathway is present, one wonders about the reasons why NOD1 is only expressed late in the infection. Although this may be related with the late release of diaminopimelic acid from the vacuole, further studies are necessary to confirm it. Alternatively, M. tuberculosis or bacterial antigens derived from the pathogen may suppress NOD1 expression by unknown mechanisms.