The spatiotemporal control of mRNA localization is considered a key determinant of neuronal development, cytoskeletal remodeling, and finally synaptic function (reviewed in). IGF2BPs were identified as key players in these processes due to their role in directing subcellular mRNA sorting and spatial control of key mRNA translation. A few transcripts have been suggested to be regulated in a spatiotemporal manner by IGF2BPs in neurons (Table 1). However, the role of IGF2BP1 in controlling the fate of the ACTB mRNA is the most investigated (reviewed in). The current view suggests that IGF2BP1 promotes the assembly of relatively stable cytoplasmic mRNPs comprising the ACTB mRNA. This allows the directed transport of the translationally silenced transcript into developing axons and dendrites. Spatially restricted translation of localized ACTB mRNAs is presumably activated by Src-mediated phosphorylation of IGF2BP1. This spatiotemporal fine tuning of ACTB protein synthesis was suggested to promote growth cone guidance during development. Recent studies indicate that IGF2BP1 also promotes the outgrowth and branching of neurites in hippocampal neurons, presumably by controlling Src-dependent spatiotemporal activation of ACTB protein synthesis. Notably, these studies revealed that IGF2BP1 is not required for the maintenance of matured dendrites, correlating well with the observation that IGF2BP1 is not expressed in the adult mouse brain, although final proof of this assumption requires further in depth analyses (Fig. 3a). Notably, IGF2BP1 was recently implicated in nerve regeneration capacity of adult sensory neurons, suggesting that the protein could also play a role in the matured neuronal system, at least during regeneration. Studies in Drosophila and Xenopus support essential roles of IGF2BPs in the nervous system. In Drosophila, dIMP was revealed to promote synaptic terminal growth and modulate protein synthesis at neuromuscular junctions. In Xenopus, the ortholog Vg1RBP/Vera was shown to be required for migration of cells forming the neural tube of the embryo and, subsequently, migration of neural crest cells. Taken together, these findings identify IGF2BPs as key regulators of neuronal development that modulate neurite outgrowth and neuronal cell migration, presumably by the spatiotemporal fine tuning of protein synthesis, as demonstrated for ACTB.