Confocal immunofluorescence microscopy experiments show that a significant percentage of structures labeled with endogenous AP-1, AP-3 and BLOC-2 co-localize with endogenous Rab32 and Rab38 in many locations throughout MNT-1 melanocytes. A larger percentage of structures labeled by AP-1, AP-3 or BLOC-2 co-localize with Rab38 than with Rab32. This is consistent with the stronger membrane association defects observed with Rab38 compared with Rab32 upon depletion of AP-3 and BLOC-2. The localization of Rab32 and Rab38 is likely to specific tubular domains of early/recycling endosomes that contain AP-1, AP-3 or BLOC-2. In support of that idea, Rab32 and Rab38 do not colocalize with the early endosome vacuolar domain marker EEA1 or tubular domains involved in the retrieval pathway to the trans-Golgi network labeled by the retromer complex. Interestingly, both Rab38 and Rab32 partially co-localize with the coat protein clathrin. Upon vesicle budding, the clathrin coat and adaptors disassemble and return to the cytosolic pool so they can be reutilized in further rounds of traffic (Fig. 1). Therefore, Rab32 and Rab38 are probably loaded onto the transport vesicles on endosomal tubular domains during the budding process or soon after vesicle release, but before vesicle uncoating. Rab32 and Rab38 likely remain bound to vesicles upon disassembly of AP-1, AP-3 and clathrin from vesicles (Fig. 1). It has been suggested that BLOC-2 may also be present in downstream vesicles or transport intermediates and may not undergo quick dissociation as is expected for AP-1, AP-3 and clathrin. This possibility would be consistent with the stronger Rab38-BLOC-2 membrane association described above. Rabs are ideal candidates to serve as mediators of trafficking between endosomal tubules and downstream organelles through interactions with specific effector proteins. The specificity of Rab32 and Rab38 function in endosome to melanosome trafficking is demonstrated by their localization to stage III and IV melanosomes and not to lysosomes (Fig. 1). These results indicate that Rab32 and Rab38 operate in the same pathways previously defined for AP-1, AP-3 and BLOC-2 and suggest they are the specific proteins that divert AP-1, AP-3 and BLOC-2-dependent cargoes to maturing melanosomes and away from lysosomes.