To test whether Ubl4A helps recruit SGTA to Bag6, we took two approaches. First, we generated a structural model of the human SGTA N-domain in complex with Ubl4A UBL by aligning the SGTA-N and Ubl4A UBL structures with the yeast homologous complex. The model indicates that the side chains of two highly conserved acidic residues in SGTA (Asp27 and Glu30) make contacts with Lys48 and Lys6 in Ubl4A, respectively, two residues showing significant chemical shift perturbation in our NMR study (Fig. 4A). We expressed either wild type SGTA or a SGTA mutant bearing D27R and E30R substitutions in cells. Immunoprecipitation showed that compared to wild type SGTA, the D27R/E30R mutant was completely inactive in binding Ubl4A, but its interaction with Hsc70 was maintained (Fig. 4B). The results suggest that the mutations specifically affect the binding site for Ubl4A. Consistent with the notion that Ubl4A serves a link between SGTA and Bag6, Bag6 was not co-precipitated with the SGTA mutant defective in Ubl4A binding. Next, we reconstituted the Ubl4A dependent interaction of SGTA with Bag6 in vitro using purified SGTA and Bag6 or a Bag6-Ubl4A complex. We purified these proteins from HEK293 cells under a high salt condition (see experimental procedure). Nonetheless, the Bag6 sample contained some endogenous Ubl4A. As expected, when Ubl4A was co-expressed with Bag6, the purified complex contained Bag6 and Ubl4A in stoichiometric ratio (Fig. 4C). Co-immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrate that purified Bag6 only moderately co-precipitated SGTA (Fig. 4D, lane 8). This association is probably mediated by the week affinity between the Bag6 UBL and SGTA N-domain. The small amount of endogenous Ubl4A present in the sample may also contribute to this interaction. Importantly, the interaction of Bag6 with SGTA, but not SGTA D27R/E30R was significantly enhanced when stoichiometric amount of Ubl4A was present (lane 10 vs. lanes 8 and 12). Likewise, ectopically expressed Bag6 did not interact significantly with endogenous SGTA in cells (Fig. 3A, Fig. 4E, lane 4), but co-expression of Ubl4A enhanced the interaction (Fig. 4E, lane 3 vs. 4). We conclude from these experiments that Ubl4A can serve as a matchmaker to enhance SGTA binding to Bag6.