Our results suggested a link between CG2183 and Zuc. Indeed, knockdown of CG2183 in the germline resulted in a loss of Piwi, no change in Aub localization, and a mild delocalization of AGO3 from nuage, a pattern indistinguishable from the effects reported upon Zuc knockdown (Figure 6C). To extend this analysis, we sequenced small RNAs from ovaries with CG2183 germline knockdown and compared piRNA populations to control as well as to Zuc or Armi knockdowns (Figure 6E). If compared to the respective control libraries (normalized to miRNA levels), piRNA populations (23-30 nt small RNAs) were reduced to 25%, 20%, or 23% upon knockdown of CG2183, Zuc, or Armi, respectively. piRNA populations mapping to the major germline piRNA cluster 42AB collapsed nearly entirely in all three knockdowns (Figure 6E), while piRNAs derived from the soma-specific flamenco cluster were essentially unchanged, in agreement with the knockdown being germline specific. The similarities in piRNA populations from CG2183, Zuc, or Armi knockdowns extended to TE piRNA profiles. Highly similar patterns of piRNA losses were seen in all three cases (Figure 6F). Zuc and Armi are required for primary piRNA biogenesis but not for ping-pong-mediated piRNA biogenesis per se and have been classified as type I piRNA biogenesis factors. Loss of either factor has a highly stereotypical impact on piRNA populations. While piRNAs mapping to most TEs are severely reduced, a handful of TEs exhibit nearly unchanged piRNA levels, and these appear to be almost exclusively produced via ping-pong based on a strong increase in the 10 nt overlap of sense/antisense piRNAs. A detailed ping-pong analysis indicated that CG2183 classifies as a third type I biogenesis factor. Adenosine levels at position 10 of sense piRNAs (an indicator of ping-pong piRNA biogenesis) were increased to almost identical levels in all three knockdowns (Figure 6G). Similarly, ping-pong signatures were elevated for the same subset of TEs in CG2183 or Zuc knockdowns (Figure 6H). The two prototypical TEs F-element (increased ping-pong) and I-element (collapsed piRNA profile) exemplify the differential impact of loss of type I biogenesis factors on piRNA populations (Figure S2).