On the molecular level, the phenotypic switch is accomplished by changes of several characteristic markers of epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Investigating the expression pattern of 50 EMT-related genes in N4ICD-transduced WM9 using a qPCR array revealed 17 significantly changed genes (Supplementary Table S6), of which 11 showed an expression pattern corresponding to a MET (Fig. 2A). Changes of selected EMT markers, including E-cadherin (CDH1), vimentin (VIM), MMP-2 (MMP2), Snail2 (SNAI2), and Twist1 (TWIST1) were confirmed by immunoblotting and qRT-PCR (Fig. 2B and Supplementary Fig. S2A). Immunohistochemical analyses of 30 primary human melanomas and 30 cutaneous and subcutaneous metastases revealed a significant positive correlation between Notch4 and E-cadherin expression (Fig. 2C, top; Supplementary Table S7). Interestingly, areas, especially melanoma nests, with high Notch4 staining matched with E-cadherin positivity (Fig. 2C, bottom and Supplementary Fig. S2B), but Notch4 was also found in E-cadherin-negative tissue. Snail2 and Twist1 are downregulated in N4ICD-overexpressing cells and both have been shown to be activated by Notch ICD through its main DNA-bound mediator CSL (RBPJ; refs.). Silencing experiments using sequence-specific siRNA targeting CSL showed that both EMTRs are upregulated following CSL knockdown on the protein and mRNA level (Fig. 2D and Supplementary Fig. S3A), suggesting that CSL acts as a transcriptional repressor. Analysis of the promoter regions of Snail2 and Twist1 revealed the presence of potential CSL-binding sites (Supplementary Fig. S3B; as reported by refs.). EMSA and ChIP assays showed binding of CSL to these sequences on Snail2 and Twist1 promoters (Supplementary Fig. S3C and S3D). Considering canonical Notch signaling, in which binding of Notch ICD to the DNA-bound transcriptional repressor CSL results in target gene activation, these results indicate that Notch4 induced suppression of Snail2 and Twist1 is mediated in a noncanonical fashion, despite CSL binding to promoters of Snail2 and Twist1.