TKI are generally categorized as type I or type II inhibitors. Type I inhibitors directly compete with ATP binding to the nucleotide-binding site and make contact with the tyrosine kinase hinge region. Crystal structures of kinases in complex with inhibitors indicate that type I TKI bind target when the phosphorylated kinase activation loop assumes either the active unfolded "open" conformation or the inactive closed conformation. Type II inhibitors indirectly compete with ATP by binding a hydrophobic allosteric site adjacent to the nucleotide-binding site in addition to the nucleotide-binding site. These inhibitors only bind the target when the activation loop assumes the "closed" conformation. Dasatinib is an example of a type I inhibitor that binds BCR-ABL while imatinib and nilotinib are examples of type II inhibitors. FLT3 mutations lead to constitutive activation by two different mechanisms: ITD mutations that relieve the negative regulatory influence of the juxtamembrane domain on the catalytic domain and the AL mutants that directly destabilize the activation loop. There are suggestions that FLT3 TKI also fall into the category of type I or type II inhibitors, but the biological data from this study argue that this categorization, while technically accurate, is likely an oversimplification. Midostaurin (and lestaurtinib) is thought to be a type I inhibitor whereas sorafenib and many other FLT3 TKI are thought to belong to the type II class. Since all FLT3 TKI inhibit ITD mutations but display variable activity against kinase domain mutants, the assertion that type II FLT3 TKI are ineffective against some AL mutations because the kinase is shifted toward the active conformation seems inadequate as it should then hold true for all FLT3 AL mutations. Instead, it is more probable that the activation loop of specific FLT3 AL mutants adopts a conformation that prohibits the DFG residues from forming hydrogen bonds that are characteristic of binding with type II inhibitors, thereby reducing drug affinity. The phenylalanine in the DFG region of activated kinases has been shown to move more than 10 Aa from its position in the inhibited conformation. Almost certainly, different substitutions on the activation loop will have varying effects on the position of the DFG residues with subsequently varying effects on the ability of type II FLT3 TKI to tightly bind these mutants. An alternative explanation as to why type II inhibitors might not be effective against FLT3 AL mutants could be that some FLT3 AL mutations don't fully transition to the inactive conformation seen in the autoinhibited form where the activation loop is completely folded between the N and C kinase lobes.