Although PTK activation is an early and requisite event in the generation of natural cytotoxicity, genetic evidence suggests that the PTKs Lck, Fyn, and ZAP-70 are not required. These observations prompted us to evaluate whether the tyrosine kinase Syk is important for natural cytotoxicity. We first determined whether Syk was tyrosine phosphorylated after stimulation of NK cells with sensitive targets since an increase in Syk tyrosine phosphorylation correlates with increased Syk activation. Human NK cell clones were incubated either with the MHC class I-deficient B lymphoblastoid targets C1R or 721.221 or with the prototypic human NK cell target K562. After various times of incubation, cells were lysed and Syk was immunoprecipitated. We observed an increase in Syk tyrosine phosphorylation after NK cells were stimulated with each of the panel of targets (Fig. 1, A-C). This increase in Syk tyrosine phosphorylation was a relatively early event, peaking at 5 min and declining to baseline by 60 min (Fig. 2). Since both Syk family members Syk and ZAP-70 are expressed in NK cells and activated downstream of the FcR, we questioned whether NK cell-derived ZAP-70 was also tyrosine phosphorylated after incubation with sensitive targets. ZAP-70 immunoprecipitates from target cell-stimulated lysates revealed no increase in the tyrosine phosphorylation of ZAP-70 after target cell contact (Fig. 1, A-C). This was not a defect in the ability of ZAP-70 to be phosphorylated in these NK cells since cross-linking with FcR-specific antibodies on the same cells results in an increase in ZAP-70 tyrosine phosphorylation (Fig. 1, A-C). Thus, it appears that Syk and not ZAP-70 is activated when this panel of targets is used to stimulate NK cells. Consistent with the observations that both Syk and ZAP-70 are tyrosine phosphorylated after FcR ligation, stimulation of NK cells with the 3G8 hybridoma, which expresses membrane-bound antibody to the FcR, resulted in an increase in both Syk and ZAP-70 tyrosine phosphorylation (Fig. 3). These data suggest that while FcR cross-linking can stimulate the tyrosine phosphorylation of Syk and ZAP-70, stimulation of NK cells with this panel of sensitive targets results in the phosphorylation of Syk without detectable ZAP-70 phosphorylation.